so what does the Zapruder film show it's
very controversial what it shows and
what it doesn't show some will even
claim that the Zapruder film has been
doctored and we're not seeing the
original of that but what does the
Zapruder film show i've spoken with
people who as I'm watching the film with
them and they'll say see there that's
when it happened and I look at it and I
don't see what they're talking about
when Kennedy is first hit when governor
Connally is first hit there are many
different interpretations
when was Kennedy first hit when was
Connally first hit now for frame 313
there's no question that was the fatal
shot but in terms of other shots or what
it means was there more than one shooter
or not very controversial there's one
thing that is not controversial in the
Zapruder film and that is after
President Kennedy is hit in film in
frame 313 his body goes immediately back
and to the left so that's not
controversial after he is shot he goes
back into the left now if we're thinking
about our simple way of thinking about
things and I'm very simple so this is
how I do think about things that would
seem to be consistent with a shot from
the front so it comes and hits and it
will continue to go in the same
direction now that does not necessarily
mean that it happened and I'm saying
that this is the simple way of thinking
of it but the Kennedy's body going back
and to the left would be at least in a
reasonably simple way that would be
consistent with a shot from the front if
you were thinking that Kennedy had been
shot from behind presumably his body
would go towards the front so we have
now we've got the Zapruder film we see
something very clearly in this but what
was the American public told in 1963
about what the Zapruder film showed with
regard to the direction of President
Kennedy's body after the shooting so we
know because we can watch the film that
his body goes back and to the left
the first description of the film that
was made in night was in from November
of 1963 by a young cub reporter you may
have heard of him named Dan Rather so he
happens to be in Dallas and he sees the
Zapruder film and he describes the
Zapruder film with remarkable accuracy I
couldn't believe it when I first heard
this his description including
describing the expression on Jackie
Kennedy's face I don't know how he was
able to do that if I had had the frames
just in front of me and looking at them
individually I couldn't have done a
better description than did Dan Rather
with one exception and he describes
President Kennedy's body after being hit
as going forward so dan Rather who has
seen the film very accurate description
except for on this one point okay so
that's one now people can make mistakes
I make mistakes I assume some of you
make mistake so maybe Dan Rather made a
mistake got some things right and some
things incorrect here's one I have a
little bit more difficulty accounting
for remember Life magazine owns the
original Zapruder film and on December 6
1963 I have a copy of the photocopy of
the article here
Life magazine wants to talk about what
happened in Dealey Plaza and Life
magazine says there are already starting
to be conspiracy theories about
President Kennedy being shot from the
front and Life magazine in this article
says well yes we understand the Dallas
doctors did think that President Kennedy
was shot from the front and they said we
at Life magazine didn't understand how
could Kennedy have been shot from the
front as the Dallas doctors thought if
Wald's behind so this is a good question
so life magazine went to look at the
film itself to exceed what actually
happened and so from Life magazine
remember they have the original film the
American public does not have it it says
it has been hard to understand how the
bullet could enter the front of front of
his throat if Oswald is behind
hence the recurring guest that there was
a second sniper somewhere else that is
the grassy knoll behind the picket fence
but the 8 millimeter film shows the
president turning his body far around to
the right as he waves to someone in the
crowd his throat is exposed toward the
sniper's nest just before he clutches it
so we Life magazine we have the only
original record of the assassination
President Kennedy turned around and when
he turned around that's when he was shot
so if you read Life magazine if you
believe that reporters are telling the
truth that they have observed this
record which they have I think that
makes sense
well in 1969 when the film was first
able to be seen by the public this is
again in the garrison trial it turns out
President Kennedy never turned around to
look behind so how do you account for
this now dan Rather very accurate
description except for this one thing on
the question of which direction to the
shot comes from Life magazine has the
film they understand the issue exactly
what's Kennedy's shot from the front and
they either make an extraordinarily
stupid mistake or they lie about this so
the American public knows in 1964
some of the frames of the Zapruder film
are included in the Warren Commission
report on the question of the direction
that the president's body went after the
shooting the Warren Commission report
inverted the frames so it looked as
though his body went for
rather than back so the frames were
inverted so you're a conscientious
person you're reading the news you're
trusting in the Warren Commission you're
trusting and Dan Rather everybody trusts
dan Rather right I think I'm right about
that you trust Life magazine and we've
got the this rather consistent set of
mistakes on exactly the same issue on
exactly the important issue in the
Kennedy assassination was there a
shooter from the front when it was point
after the film became available publicly
the Warren Commission was asked were
former members the Warren Commission
were asked about this
the FBI ended up reporting that it was
an inadvertent printers error that the
felt the order of the film's were were
switched so that's our Zapruder film
raises some questions about this now
with the information that I'm giving you
now that doesn't necessarily prove
anything but it certainly does suggest
that people were certainly aware of what
the issue was was President Kennedy shot
from the front and all of the official
information going to the American public
is attempting to deny that even when
there is information showing that that
was not the case